[Agent Builder] Document the traces overview dashboard (9.5) (#7337)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/agent-traces-dashboard.md

---

> navigation_title: "Agent traces dashboard"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
navigation_title: "Overview dashboard"
```

wdyt?

description: "Install and use the prebuilt Agent Builder overview dashboard to monitor agent activity, token usage, latency, and tool calls from trace data."
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.5+
  serverless: ga
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: kibana
  - id: observability
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# {{agent-builder}} traces overview dashboard

{{agent-builder}} ships a prebuilt overview dashboard that turns your agent trace data into ready-made operational and usage metrics. Instead of building visualizations yourself, you install one managed dashboard and see how your agents behave, including how many tokens they use, how long conversations take, which agents run most often, and where tool calls fail.

Use the dashboard to:

- Track token usage and LLM request volume across models and providers.
- Spot slow conversations and long-running agent executions.
- Find tools that fail or run slowly.

> The dashboard reads the traces that {{agent-builder}} collects into your own {{es}}, so it reflects your real agent activity. You collect that trace data first, then install the dashboard in each {{kib}} space where you want it. The following sections walk through both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard visualizes the trace data that {{agent-builder}} sends to your {{es}} deployment, giving you a view of real agent activity. First, you must configure trace collection. Then install the dashboard in each {{kib}} space where you want to view the data.
```

- into your own {{es}} isn't great phrasing (let's avoid any other instances of that phrasing)
- we don't walk thru collection steps here, so inaccurate to say " The following sections walk through both."

> <!-- TODO(#7322): link "agent trace data" and "trace data" -> collect-traces.md once it is on main. -->

Reviewer: I'd consider merging this into #7322 for simplicity TBH
